# COVID-19-Seasonality Estimation Science Experiment
This experiment tests whether seasonal differences between 2021-2024, under normal circumstances when vaccines are available and stay-at-home orders have been lifted, affect the values of Reff for COVID-19 across regions in various areas throughout Maryland. (Unlike many areas in the United States, including D.C. and Virginia, Maryland makes available daily COVID-19 infection rates through 2024. Thus, this experiment is based on Maryland’s infection data between 2021 and 2024 for the counties of Montgomery, Prince George, and Howard.) The control group is the range of Covid data during the summer months when temperatures are warm. The tested group is the range of Covid data during winter months when temperature drops. Here, temperature becomes the independent variable.
The experiment uses mathematical modeling and nonlinear optimization methods, thereby offering a data-driven approach to identifying when the COVID-19 virus may become more dangerous. If it is demonstrated that R for COVID-19 changes due to season, local governments and health organizations can use this insight to optimize resource allocation, prepare hospitals, and make timely policy decisions. Additionally, it could empower local communities and individuals to be more aware of potential seasonal risks, guiding their behaviors to reduce transmission. Overall, this experiment combines theoretical mathematical modeling and real-life data application, providing a tool for more effective disease management in future scenarios.

<<<<<<< HEAD

=======
>>>>>>> bb3a181410353aa9d7684e54a5441ede873d82e6
